MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Before I turn it over to my NSC colleague here, I want to say one thing at the top.  We have grave concerns with the passage of the Anti-Homosexuality Act — AHA — by the Parliament of Uganda yesterday and increasing violence targeting LGBTQI+ persons. 

If the AHA is signed into law and enacted, it would impinge upon universal human rights, jeopardize progress in the fight against HIV/AIDS, deter tourism and invest [investment] in Uganda, and damage Uganda’s international reputation. 

The bill is one of the most extreme anti-LGBTQI+ laws in the world. 

Human rights are universal.  No one should be attacked, imprisoned, or killed simply because of who they are or whom they love. 

And with that, my colleague, John Kirby, is here to offer a preview of the President’s upcoming trip to Canada — as you know, the President will be heading to Canada tomorrow — and answering any lingering questions about President Putin and President Xi’s meeting this week in Moscow.

Admiral.

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Karine.  I’m sure there’s no lingering questions about that.

So, as Karine said, I just wanted to give you all a little bit of a preview here of the President’s trip up to — to Ottawa.  He does leave tomorrow afternoon.  It’s quite a packed schedule for a short trip. 

Once they — once they arrive, they’ll be greeted by the Governor General of Canada, Mary Simon.  Later tomorrow evening, the President and First Lady will join Prime Minister Trudeau and Mrs. Trudeau for an intimate gathering at their residence. 

Then, on Friday, the President will participate in a bilateral meeting, of course with Prime Minister Trudeau and his team, during which he will absolutely reaffirm the United States’ enduring commitment to this U.S.-Canada partnership. 

The President will then follow in the tradition of previous presidents who visited Canada and addressed Canada’s Parliament.  In his remarks, the President will underscore how the U.S.-Canada partnership benefits not only our two countries but the entire world, and that by working together, we can address some of the biggest challenges we face. 

President Biden and Prime Minister Trudeau will then participate in a press conference. 

Later, tomorrow — or Friday evening, the President and First Lady will attend a gala dinner at the Canadian Aviation and Space Museum.

Now, in addition to joining the President for those events, the First Lady will continue to build on her friendship with Mrs. Sophie Trudeau and participate in a spousal program that’s focused on our shared cultural connections and, of course, empowering young people. 

This is a meaningful visit.  Canada is one of the United States’ closest allies and friends and has been now for more than 150 years. 

This will be the first true in-person bilateral meeting between the two leaders in Canada since 2009. 

In the first year of this administration, we focused on rebuilding that bilateral relationship.  In the second year, we focused on following through on our commitments, including prioritizing orderly and safe migration through regular pathways and enhancing collaboration to address the synthetic opioid crisis. 

And now, heading into the third, this visit is about taking stock of what we’ve done, where we are, and what we need to prioritize for — for the future. 

We’re going to talk about our two democracies stepping up to meet the challenges of our time.  That includes taking concrete steps to increase defense spending, driving a global race to the top on clean energy, and building prosperous and inclusive economies. 
